# Expensify

I know you don’t want to hear this from me. And I guarantee I don’t want to say
it. But we are facing an unprecedented attack on the foundations of democracy
itself. If you are a US citizen, **anything less than a vote for Biden is a
vote against democracy.**

That’s right, I’m saying a vote for Trump, a vote for a third-party candidate,
or simply not voting at all -- they’re all the same, and they all mean:

_“I care more about my favorite issue than democracy. I believe Trump winning
is more important than democracy. I am comfortable standing aside and allowing
democracy to be methodically dismantled, in plain sight.”_

If the polls are accurate, there’s a roughly 50% chance that you agree Trump
needs to go. You know what to do: **show up on November 3rd and vote for
Biden.** Or even better, don’t wait until then: vote today. Go to
[Vote.org](https://www.vote.org/) if you need help figuring out how.

The rest of this email is intended to address the concerns of those who
disagree, and I’ll try to take the most likely questions in turn:

## Q: Why do you care so much about democracy?

Democracy is core to our business success, in a variety of ways. Internally, we
are a famously “flat” organization -- nobody reports to anyone else, and
advancement is the result of meeting well defined criteria as judged by the
vote of those who have already advanced. How we compensate each other is left
up to a team vote as well. Even our external business model depends on
individual employees “electing” to adopt Expensify as individuals, and then
“campaigning” internally to get it adopted companywide. At every layer,
democracy is our core competitive advantage -- both as a company, and as a
nation. But that advantage is only as strong as the clarity of our rules and
the fairness of their application. Any attempt to disrupt the rules or apply
them unfairly is a direct threat to the strength of our company, and the
strength of our nation.

## Q: What gives you the right to tell me what to do?

The first amendment. To be clear, you don’t need to listen. But the first
amendment exists to encourage people like you and me to find some way to talk
about the issues that matter, set aside our differences, and find a common
ground on which to collectively govern 331 million citizens. Yes democratic
self-rule can be inconvenient. But a burden of democracy is that this is
literally our job, so I’m asking all of us to take it seriously.

## Q: But you’re a company, shouldn’t you remain neutral?

Expensify depends on a functioning society and economy; not many expense
reports get filed during a civil war. As CEO of this business, it’s my job to
plot a course through any storm -- and all evidence suggests that another 4 (or
as Trump has hinted -- 8, or more?) years of Trump leadership will damage our
democracy to such an extent, I’m obligated on behalf of shareholders to take
any action I can to avoid it. I am confident our democracy (and Expensify) can
survive a Biden presidency. I can’t say the same about Trump. It’s truly as
simple as that.

## Q: Don’t you think you’re… exaggerating a bit?

I truly wish I was. I wouldn’t be sending this email if this election were just
about “normal issues” -- taxes, legislative priorities, healthcare, etc. But it
isn’t. This election is a referendum on what limits, if any, we place on our
elected leaders to govern us in a fair and representative way. **This election
will decide if widespread voter suppression is an acceptable governing
tactic.**

## Q: Doesn’t everyone suppress votes?

Not like Trump. This is the most heavily litigated election in history, with
over 300 lawsuits rushing through the courts before election day. And in every
case, Biden is pushing to enable voters while Trump is pushing to suppress
them. The trend couldn’t be more clear: Biden wants democracy, Trump does not.
**A vote for Trump is to endorse voter suppression, it really is very basic.**
This isn’t about party politics: if Biden were advocating for half of the voter
suppression that Trump is actively doing, then I'd be fighting against Biden,
too. This is bigger than politics as usual: this is about the very foundation
of our nation.

## Q: Isn’t Trump just trying to prevent voter fraud?

Voter fraud is virtually nonexistent, as overwhelmingly shown by [data
showcased by the White House
itself](https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/docs/pacei-voterfraudcases.pdf).
That data comes from the Heritage Foundation, a conservative think tank
counting every single known case of voter fraud since 1948, which adds up to
only 1,290 distinct votes over 78 years. In 2016 alone there were 138 million
votes. There is just no credible argument that voter fraud is significant, even
based on Trump’s own data.

## Q: Isn’t Biden just using more widespread voting to get elected?

Absolutely. This is the heart of the issue. Biden believes that enabling more
people to vote will help him win. Biden wins by promoting democracy; Trump wins
by suppressing it. **A vote for Biden is a vote for democracy.**

## Q: So what if Trump gets elected by voter suppression, all’s fair right?

Well that’s what we’re going to decide, on November 3rd. Do you want your
elected official to win based on the merits of their ideas? Or based on the
ruthlessness of their voter suppression? And if you’re ok with “just a little
suppression” -- where do you draw the line?

## Q: Why send me this when the polls say Biden is going to win?

The polls said Trump was going to lose last time, and he didn’t. But even if
the polls can be trusted, that might still not be enough. Trump has stated
repeatedly he will only honor an election that he personally feels is fair. So
much depending on his personal judgement is worrying, because he has rejected
the overwhelming expert consensus that voter fraud has been negligible
historically, and has also said he believes it would be impossible to lose a
fair election. Accordingly, the only way to ensure a peaceful transition of
power is to ensure this election is an overwhelming, undeniable landslide in
favor of Biden. Any excuse to question the election is an opportunity for Trump
to refuse to leave the White House, plunging this country into a Constitutional
crisis bordering on civil war. No matter how slight that risk might be, the
consequences of it happening would be so catastrophic to society and the
economy, we need to do all we can to prevent it.

So one final plea. As a fellow citizen, I fully support and respect your
Constitutional right to disagree -- and as an avid supporter of democracy, I
value that disagreement. Constructive, well-informed debate (hopefully using
[the most accurate, least biased news source
available](https://www.adfontesmedia.com/)) is what makes this nation so
exceptional.

But the Constitution is only as strong as the respect we give it. I’m asking
you to cherish it close to your heart, and demand that those you elect do the
same.

-david  
Founder and CEO of Expensify

PS: Agree or disagree? Reply to this email to share your thoughts with
Concierge, or hit me up on Twitter [@dbarrett](https://twitter.com/dbarrett) to
discuss!

PPS: Want to do even more? Support the [National Popular
Vote](https://www.nationalpopularvote.com/) to make every vote count equally
toward the presidential election, even if you aren’t in one of the 12 states
deciding this election.

PPPS: Are you annoyed that you received this as a non-US citizen? If you're
lucky enough to live in a democracy, then I'd encourage you to protect it and
be willing to do uncomfortable things -- like emailing millions of customers --
to defend it.
